Financial Accountant
Collinson London, England, United Kingdom Hybrid 2 weeks ago 44 applicants 

About the job

Collinson Group is a global leader in driving loyalty and engagement for many of the world’s largest companies. Predominantly through the provision of travel related benefits within a market leading digital travel ecosystem. The group offers a unique blend of industry and sector specialists who together provide market-leading experience in delivering products and services across four core capabilities: Loyalty, Lifestyle Benefits and Insurance.


The group provides unrivalled insight and expertise around affluent consumers and frequent travellers, creating and delivering products and services now accessible to over 400m end consumers.

We have more than 25 years’ experience, with 28 global locations, servicing over 800 clients in 170 countries, employing 1,800 people.


We have been bringing innovation to the market since inception – from launching the first independent global VIP lounge access Programme, Priority Pass to being the first to sell direct travel insurance in the UK through Columbus Direct and creating the first loyalty agency of its kind in the travel sector with ICLP. Today we still invest heavily in innovation to ensure that we continue to deliver superior customer experiences.


Key clients include: Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Cathay Pacific, British Airways, LATAM, Flying Blue, Accor, EasyJet, HSBC, Chase, HDFC.


Our mission is focused on doing good beyond profit, which for us means we seek out opportunities for our people to share in our success and that we give back to the communities and people within which we work.


Never short of ambition, the success of our business is delivered through the diverse and talented team of over 1,800 colleagues globally.


What does an Financial Accountant do at Collinson?


The Financial Accountant will work within the Insurance finance team of the Collinson Group. They will work as an integral part of the finance team with the Financial Reporting Manager taking ownership for the monthly management accounts and supporting the production of the statutory accounts and being key points of contact during the audit process.


The Financial Accountant will be responsible for managing the production of the monthly management accounts and for reviewing the accuracy of the results, support the completion of tax submissions, ownership for the balance sheet reconciliations, cashflow forecasts and line management of the Assistant Financial Accountants. They will also support any process/ system changes within the team, ensure the onboarding process for new clients is set up and accounted for correctly as well as ensure a strong and effective control environment exists with a specific emphasis on improving month end close and accounting.


Key responsibilities of this role include:


    Support the Financial Reporting Manager to establish and maintain high quality and timely management accounts
    Review of period related P&L trend analysis and analytical reviews for their entity/entities to ensure Group and the business have a good insight into key movements and the financial performance of each entity.
    Maintain the period related balance sheet reconciliation process
    Ownership for the inter-company position, ensuring this is reconciled monthly to agree with the other group entities
    To work with the Commercial teams, Travel, Multilines, A&H, to ensure all revenue accruals, earned premiums, claims paid accruals, profit share journals and ad hoc adjustments are processed with a high level of accuracy and understanding for reporting within the management accounts and working with Commercial Finance provide analysis for variance to budget.
    Support the Financial Reporting Manager on all audits
    Manage the completion of VAT, Corporation Tax, IPT and any 3rd party reporting as required
    Manage the delivery of the cashflow forecast for their entity/entities
    Assist with continuous embedding and delivery of Finance Transformation projects
    Line management of the Assistant Financial Accountants


About you


To be successful in your application, you’ll have experience of working within a similar role, alongside accountancy qualification (ACCA, ACA, CIMA etc).

This is a technical focused role where you’ll need to apply a proactive, positive, and forward looking approach to the role, whilst using your expert communication skills to engage with stakeholders across all levels of the business, as well as line management responsibilities. Key to success in this role, will be your ability to manage and deliver against conflicting priorities, and your ability to work well in a fast paced environment.


Key skills and experience to be evidenced within your application include:


    Strong MS Office skills, particularly within Excel
    Good knowledge of SAP/Maconomy/Access Dimensions accounting system preferable
    High personal levels of motivation and delivery orientated focus working well under pressure
    Attention to detail, with an analytical mindset
    Ability to interact with and develop working relationships internally and externally in order to achieve best outcomes for the business and customer
    Ability to encourage, train and develop the Assistant Financial Accountants
    Knowledge and experience of best practice within industry to consistently improve delivery within department
    Strong organisation and planning skills
    Ability to communicate confidently and effectively


You can look forward to a competitive salary, pension scheme, and further benefits:


    Life Assurance Scheme
    Personal Income Protection
    Private Medical
    Discounted gym membership
    Wellness advice and support
    Cycle to Work Scheme
    Priority Pass Membership (Collinson Exclusive)
    Travel Insurance (Collinson Exclusive)
